from New York Times opinion. I'm Ross
Dowed and this is Interesting Times.
[Music]
[Applause]
Forget about the political drama for a
moment. What is the actual truth about
Jeffrey Epstein? Are there real secrets
that haven't yet been revealed? And
what's it like to try to pull back the
curtain on one of the 21st century's
most mysterious villains? My guest today
brought Epstein's story fully into the
public eye with her dogged reporting for
the Miami Herald in 2018,
and she'll be our guide through the big
unanswered questions that are still with
us today.
Before we dive in, I just want to note
that we recorded this conversation just
before, as in hours before, the Wall
Street Journal reported on a birthday
letter sent by Donald Trump to Epstein
and before the president then authorized
the Justice Department to seek the
release of grand jury testimony in
Epstein's case. So, you won't hear us
discuss those developments, just
everything else. Julie K. Brown. Welcome
to Interesting Times.
>> Thank you.
>> So, for the last couple of weeks, ever
since the Trump administration decided
it was a good idea to tell the world
that there was nothing more to say about
the Jeffrey Epstein story, which has not
been true, I feel like we've had a lot
of these meta conversations about the
case. conversations about Trump
administration politics, about MAGA
infighting, about sort of theories about
conspiracy theories, and I just keep
coming back to the man himself and all
of the weird questions that to me as a
journalist and news consumer still hang
over this whole story. So, I'm really
hoping that together we can sort of walk
through the story, the actual story of
how Jeffrey Epstein, the man, became
Jeffrey Epstein, the mythic villain of
the early 21st century. And I want to
start in the middle for him or maybe
near the end for him, but at the
beginning for you, how did you first get
drawn into this story? What prompted you
as a journalist to start looking into
Jeffrey Epstein and his crimes?
>> Well, I was my background was mostly
crime reporting. I was on the Miami
Herald's investigative team and I was
covering prisons and I needed a sort of
a change of pace. So, I thought I would
try to find a mystery to write about.
And the Jeffrey Epstein case had been
written about before, mostly focused on
the celebrity aspect of his life, who he
knew, his plane, his private island. But
I when I ever I ran across a story about
him, it never really explained fully to
me why he was able to get away with the
crimes that he did. And as I was sort of
looking for something to do around that
time, Donald Trump, who was our newly
elected president, um, nominated a guy
by the name of Alex Acasta as his labor
secretary. And I knew that Acasta was
the prosecutor who signed off on this
sweetheart deal, so to speak, that
Epstein had gotten way back in 2008.
So, I thought at the time that at his
Senate at Aussa Senate confirmation
hearing, they were going to ask him a
lot of questions about this case. And to
my surprise, it seemed like everybody
had almost forgotten about it. They
asked him maybe one or two questions.
And I don't really think he gave very
good answers, but they satisfied the
senators because he was confirmed. So at
that point I thought I wonder what these
victims who we knew were there were at
least a dozen or so. You know they were
children when this happened but now with
the passage of time they were in their
late 20s early 30s. And I wondered what
they thought about this uh man who had
given their predator really such a
lenient deal and he was now in charge of
one of the largest agencies in the
country with oversight of human
trafficking. So the story really began
as I thought I would do a reaction of
the victims to uh Accassa being
appointed labor secretary.
But once I started digging into the
story uh it was like an onion. I found
out more and more and more and it took a
long time quite frankly to figure out
who the victims were because it was so
long ago and all their names were
redacted from all the documents. So it
just kept snowballing. I became really
interested in the fact that these girls'
lives were essentially ruined. Even if
they had only gone to his house one
time, it affected the rest of their
lives and it was just very powerful. uh
the stories that they were telling me.
>> And so at that point, the official
narrative of Epstein was he had taken a
plea deal
related to early teenage girls,
>> right?
>> What was the actual nature of that deal?
Well, actually, it was only, you know, I
came to find out, one of the many things
I came to find out, which hadn't been
reported before, was that they
manipulated
and downplayed the scope of his crimes.
He only plead guilty to a charge of
soliciting one underage girl. And they
purposely picked a girl who was a little
older so that the crime that was on the
books, so to speak, was downplayed. And
it was only one girl. Even though it was
clear that he had done this to many,
many girls, they also hid what they were
doing from not only the public, but from
the victims. They went out of their way
to keep this whole deal secret. He sort
of slid into a courtroom, pleaded
guilty. Nobody knew what he was pleading
guilty to because it was all the records
were sealed. And as a result of that, a
lawyer for one of the victims filed a
lawsuit.
And that lawsuit had been ongoing when I
took up the case in 2016. Uh but the
nature of the lawsuit was that he the
the FBI and the Justice Department by
doing this all in secret had violated
what's known as the uh Crime Victim's
Rights Act. And under that law, you're
supposed to be informed of all
proceedings or any plea deals. And they
didn't do that. And it was a year
another year before that plea deal was
was unsealed and made public. And by
that time, he had already served this
cushy jail sentence, which was not a
sentence at all because he was allowed
to leave the jail and go back to Palm
Beach to his office or his home or the
Home Depot or, you know, he he he had a
chauffeur picking him up at the Palm
Beach jail every morning and didn't
return him to the jail until 10:00 at
night. So, he essentially only slept
there. And so from your perspective as
as a reporter at that point as you're
digging into the story, what was your
theory of why he got this plea deal?
>> Well, the theory w always was, you know,
here we are getting a little bit into
the conspiracy thing, but the theory
>> we're going to we're going to get
further, don't worry.
>> We the theory always was who was the
person in our government that let
Jeffrey Epstein off? And I really didn't
know, but I wanted to try to get to that
place if I could. That was sort of my
goal. Let's track everything that
happened. I sort of looked at it like a
cold case, pulling out all these files.
A lot of them were in paper because it
was so long ago. And I had just piles
and piles of boxes and boxes. And I just
started from scratch and thought, you
know, maybe I can find out. My goal was
to find out how did this happen and why.
And what did you find out?
>> Well, I found out that Jeffrey Epstein,
of course, had a lot of resources both
financially and politically. He he
cultivated people on both sides of the
political aisle and people across the
world really. Uh he was very wealthy,
but there was no real indicator of how
he made his wealth. And I I just learned
that he was able to hire, you know,
essentially a dream team, you know,
Kenneth Star, Allan Dersitz, Jay Lefitz,
a lot of these had contacts with the uh
law firm of Kirkland and Ellis who um
>> was a very prominent very prominent DC
law firm.
>> Very prominent. And Epstein was very
shrewd. Every lawyer that he hired had a
tie to one of the prosecutors on the
case. Alex Acasta had worked for
Kirkland and Ellis. So, and he was very
ambitious at the time he was really a
rising star in the GOP. Ironically, one
of the ways that he was rising was he
was handling a lot of child pornography
cases. He was part of a a team of
prosecutors that was prosecuting child
porn. And so, you know, Epste knew
exactly who to hire. I mean, he even
hired a lawyer that had dated one of the
prosecutors. So every single lawyer had
a tie to the prosecutors in some way and
was sort of, you know, if you're a
prosecutor, you want to eventually end
up, you know, somewhere in a good law
firm and, you know, make more money. So
for some of these prosecutors, this was
like, you know, having Kenneth Star and
Alan Dersowitz, they were starruck by
some of these lawyers. So in that sense
it looks like sort of insiders and power
create a kind of path of least
resistance for the prosecution where you
get some kind of conviction but you
don't have to end up at war with this
legal all-star team spending all kinds
of resources.
>> That's right. And they were relentless
relentless in their pleadings and their
motions that the prosecutors of course
had to had to address. So, we were able
to get the emails that went back and
forth between Epstein's lawyers and the
federal prosecutors assigned to the case
and they were very eyeopening because of
how chummy they were. You know, how was
your weekend? Right?
>> They were working hand in hand really.
They weren't treating Epstein as if he
was the criminal that he was.
>> And so, just to clarify, he ends up
pleading guilty to two counts of
solicitation of prostitution. One of
those with a minor.
>> That's correct.
>> And how long was his sentence?
>> 18 months.
>> But he only served about 13 months,
right? Yes. So now you start reporting
on the story, talking to victims that
were part of the initial prosecution and
then it becomes clear, right, that there
were many more victims,
>> right? because the nature of Epstein's
crime was that he would bring one young
girl in there. Um, sometimes, you know,
we believe that Gilen Maxwell, his
accomplice, who was a British socialite,
who was his girlfriend at one point,
started by recruiting young people from
spas in the Palm Beach area. mainly
people who worked young girls who were
very pretty who worked at the spas. And
then once they and she didn't tell them,
you know, we want you to give this guy
have sex with this guy. It was we want
to give this guy a massage.
>> So once they got there and they realize,
you know, they go into this mansion and
they go up the stairs and they're in
this dark room and he's laying he comes
in in a towel and they're in this place
and they realize, well, nobody knows I'm
here. who is this guy? You know, they
get really upset. So, after he molests
them, he says, "Look, you don't have to
do this again. I'm going to give you the
same amount of money for every single
other girl that you bring me." So, he
had girl upon girl upon girl bringing
other girls. And it was a revolving door
all day, all night. He was insatiable
really. And it was crazy. They were
coming in and out like that. These girls
taking taxis, you know, um getting
rides.
>> And this is mostly happening. This is
happening in Palm Beach.
>> That's correct.
>> At his mansion in Palm Beach. That's
correct. And and so just just for
overall numbers, like you know, I know
there's sort of official legal numbers.
Your your guess is that there are
hundreds of girls.
>> Yeah. There were
>> who were involved in this in some way?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. So you do this reporting and then
what are the actual real world
consequences of your reporting? What
happens legally to Jeffrey Epstein in
the late 2010s?
>> Well, the story got a lot of attention
and at first I thought uh this good I'm
getting recognized for my work and then
I started hearing rumors the justice
department was looking at again. Now,
these victims had a lot of them had
filed civil lawsuits against Epstein
over the course of the following decade.
Uh, some of them, a couple of them were
still open, but as they were getting
discovery for these lawsuits, they were
finding out more and more horrible
things about what had happened and what
Epstein was doing. And they kept going
to the Justice Department with the
stuff. The lawyers kept going to the
Justice Department in New York in
particular because the plea deal had
been done in Florida and they didn't
think that they could bring charges more
charges against him in Florida because
of the way the plea deal was structured.
So, they kept going to the uh US uh
attorney in the Southern District of New
York and trying to get them to look at
it and reopen it. And they didn't. They
just kept saying no, no, no. After my
story ran, a group of prosecutors saw my
story, took it to the US attorney in the
Southern District of New York, Jeffrey
Berman, and said, "We got to do
something about this." And Burman said,
"Go ahead, look into it." And um let's
do it. So he was arrested in July. It
was like the Fourth of July weekend. He
was coming home from Paris. He has a
home in Paris. And and they boarded the
plane and and arrested him. And then
what happened to him?
>> Uh well, he was put in the federal jail
in uh New York and arraigned and charged
on uh new sex trafficking charges. And
he did the same thing. It was funny, the
pattern was the same from 2008. He hired
high-profile lawyers. He would have
meetings with them almost every day.
They kept assuring him that he was
going, this wasn't going to stick
because he had this he had already been
prosecuted and plead guilty to these
other charges and they felt that this
was in essence the plea deal would make
it so that they wouldn't be able to
prosecute him. And I think that they
were trying to convince him, look, this
is just not going to stick. You're going
to get out. But then he tried to get
bail and he was refused bail. All these
victims showed up at the bail hearing
and testified. This is what he did to
me. It was very emotional and
gut-wrenching and I think, you know,
there wasn't a judge anywhere that
probably would have let him out on bail.
They said they were afraid for their
lives, etc. So, he didn't get bail.
>> And then what happened?
>> And then, um, one day I was scheduled to
do an interview on NPR. Actually, what
happened was, let me back up. The Miami
Herald had sued to unseal a very
important civil case that had been filed
between Gilan Maxwell, his accomplice,
and a victim by the name of uh Virginia
Gupy. And what happened was on August
9th, they unsealed everything that we
almost everything and we wrote a story
and I was doing an interview about the
the files that were unsealed that
morning on August 10th when I got on the
line with NPR for the interview. They
told me Jeffrey Epstein hung himself
and that's how I found out he had died.
I couldn't believe it. I had to call the
justice. I had a source in the Justice
Department in New York and I said, "You
got to tell me did this happen." And
that's how I found out the next day
after we had written this story.
>> Now, I I know you're not a prosecutor or
a defense attorney, but at the point
when he killed himself, what was your
perception of the likelihood that he was
going to go to jail for a long time? Did
it seem like, okay, you know, enough has
come out and there's enough victims that
he's probably facing a long prison
sentence, or was there still a sense in
your mind that he has this highpowered
legal team, he has this past guilty
plea, he's going to wrigle out of it?
>> No, I thought he was going to wrigle out
of it. Okay.
>> I really do.
>> Yeah.
>> He was lining everything up and he had
all the resources and he knew people who
knew people, if you know what I mean.
[Music]
Hey.
So now I want to go back in time. So
this is a this is a flashback and I just
want you to help me through this
storytelling. So it's the 1970s.
Jeffrey Epstein is a teacher at the
Dalton School, a very prestigious prep
school in New York City, where the
headmaster is Donald Bar, who is the
father of Bill Bar, who would be the
attorney general when Epstein killed
himself in prison. And I cite that
detail only because it's an example of
how Epstein's story is filled with these
little grace notes that are gifts to
would be conspiracy theorists. So, as I
understand the story, a parent there is
friendly with him, helps him get an
interview for a job at Bear Sterns, the
investment firm, as a trader, and then
from there, between there and the 1990s,
he becomes insanely wealthy. How did
that happen? How did he get rich? You
mentioned earlier it's this was an open
question when you started reporting,
>> but if you were going to tell the story
now as you understand it, how did he get
rich?
>> Well, he was very smart man. Uh he's a
very intelligent man and he was very
good. I think that that the key to
Epstein's real success is the fact that
he would find the weak point that
anybody had, whatever they needed or
wanted, and he would exploit that. And I
don't know what he had on uh Les Wexner,
who became one of his primary clients.
Less Wexner is a uh billionaire who
owned Victoria's Secret and also the
limited uh retail stores at the time.
And he somehow met Les Wexner and Wexner
was really his primary client. And as a
result of that, his wealth just, you
know, boomed. But he wasn't just an
advisor. He wasn't like Less Wexner's
financial advisor. He was Less Wexner's
But he had power of attorney, right? He
had like a remar he was effectively
like, you know, the hand of the king in
Game of Thrones or something where he
he's just making
>> any kind of deal for for Wexner. Um
>> that's correct. And in some of the some
of the arguments about the mystery of
Epstein's wealth, I've seen people say,
"Well, this it's a kind of a mystery why
Wexner gave him this kind of power." But
that does explain how rich he got,
right? Wexner is a billionaire and he I
guess makes tens or hundreds of millions
just off this connection. Does that does
that seem plausible to you? Like, do do
you feel like the Wexner connection,
even if why Wexner loved him is a
mystery, suffices to explain how much
money he seemed to have by the end of
the 1990s, let's say?
>> No, it doesn't make any sense. And it
certainly is something that authorities
should have investigated. If not back
then, then in the advancing years, they
should have looked into it. I always
felt like they relied too much on
victims to help make their case when
they should have followed the money.
>> Right. And he is again these all of
these stories are you know when we had
our factchecking team look at the script
you know they were like well this is a
supposition this is secondhand this is
hearsay right so you have you have this
narrative before he meets Wexner
starting in the 1980s he's really good
at sort of moving money around
>> in sort of complex international
environments right so one of the again
secondhand stories is that he does work
for Adan Kashogible the fairly famous
arms dealer in the 1980s. Right. So,
there's this sort of mythos around him
as a kind of fixer. And you said that he
was really good at identif giving people
what they wanted, right? And I' you've
seen these stories that are like people
people would come to him with some
impossible problem allegedly like I'm
making this one up, right? But, you
know, I have a fleet of Mercedes, you
know, somewhere in Tibet and I need to
legally get them to Peru. Can you help
me, Jeffrey Epste? Right?
but as far as we know from the public
record, we're just trying to get at what
we know to be the truth.
>> His primary mechanism of getting rich
was his connection to Wexner.
>> That's correct.
>> And by the late 1990s, he is sort of
building out a
playboy intellectual lifestyle, right?
Can you can you sort of describe the
lifestyle that Epstein has? Well, he had
a lot of salon, so to speak, at his
Manhattan home and also at his other
homes he uh owned like the island off
the coast of St. Thomas. He would fly uh
Nobel Prize winners for example in to
talk about science. He started a couple
of foundations and started giving a lot
of money away through these foundations
and he really cultivated a number of
really high-profile scientists and he
sort of fancied himself as a little bit
more of a science and mathematician than
I think he really was. But he had so
much money and he dangled a lot of that
money. remember all these uh scientists
and academics, you know, MIT, Harvard,
they usually need money for some of
their projects. So, he he had money,
lots of money. So, they
>> kind of entertained him or um him. Yes.
In some cases, because some of them felt
like he was really just full of it. Uh
but they were willing to take his money.
Do you know what his specific scientific
interests were or specific projects he
was interested in?
>> He was interested in all kinds of things
involving babies and how they form
intelligence and uh eugenics and gene y
>> research things like that. And the
story, one of the stories that I've read
is that he had, you know, sort of
transhumanist ideas, but also there were
people who would say, "Oh, he wanted to
seed his genetic lineage, right, into
the future." Sort of not in the same
style as Elon Musk and his many
children, but with a similar effect,
right, that he that he sort of imagined
many children in the future.
>> Yeah. He was going to these gatherings
that they had a very wealthy famous
people and they would talk about all
these scientific interests and that was
one that he had expressed to a lot of
the people that attended these
conferences.
>> But we can say I mean as you said
already it's pretty straightforward
why scientists and intellectuals were
interested in hanging out with Jeffrey
Epstein initially. It's because he was
rich and was willing to fund and donate
to universities and donate to research
and so on. So that that itself is not a
a special mystery. What about the
general cast of celebrity politicians
figures like that who you know rode on
his plane or supposedly rode on his
plane ended up on his island people at
the level of Tony Blair, Bill Clinton.
We'll get to the the Donald Trump
connection in a little while, but are
these pe these people are also just sort
of pulled in by, you know, the normal
reality that rich people like to hang
out with famous people and vice versa?
Like what's what's your sense of how how
that worked?
>> Well, you know, Epstein was donating
political money to to a lot of
campaigns. So, of course, he would
attract the kind of people that need
political donations, and Clinton was
certainly one of them. And even after
Clinton um left the presidency, he there
was the Clinton Foundation. And so he
was seeking donations for the Clinton
Foundation as well. So that was one of
the they went on a long trip overseas on
Epstein's plane to travel to various
areas uh to you know understand the AIDS
epidemic and what could be done. And you
know, Epstein sort of envisioned himself
as this person that could maybe find
things that would help cure cancer or,
you know, cure AIDS or he he felt like
he could be a part of that in some way.
>> And so let's let's make these timelines
overlap. At what point does he become
connected with Galen Maxwell whom you've
already mentioned his paramore for a
while and then ultimately his accomplice
in predation. When did they first start
hanging out?
>> When after her father died uh Robert
Maxwell who was a publisher, British
publisher died under suspicious
circumstances himself.
>> Very suspicious circumstances on a boat.
>> Right. They think he just fell off. They
found him floating, but there was a
yacht. He had a yacht. He was off the
Canary Islands and they just woke up one
day and couldn't find him. And then
eventually someone saw him floating in
the ocean. And so there's a lot of
questions because after they found him
dead, they realized that he had
>> essentially raided his whole company uh
including the employees um pension fund.
And so he and ultimately his sons, you
know, had to go to, you know, stand
trial for this. And anyway, his her
father had passed away and Epstein was
at the funeral or and another event
honoring her father after his death. So
at the time, Maxwell's family was in
ruin. They had no money and her mother
really was in danger of losing
everything. and her mother wrote uh
later wrote a book and explained that
there was this New York financier who
helped the family. She doesn't name who
that is, but there's enough of an
indicator there that it sounds like it
could have been Epstein that kind of
came in to sort of rescue the family and
helped provide a house for her mother to
live in. And you know it is thought that
it was probably Epstein that helped the
family and that's how they met.
>> So it's 1991 that Robert Maxwell passes
away in suspicious circumstances.
Epstein is there to help his family. Um
here it's worth noting that Maxwell
himself had ties to the Israeli
government and to Israeli intelligence
operations. I believe and that's a
thread that then also connects to the
conspiracy theories. But so you said
that Epstein and Maxwell date.
>> That's correct.
>> And then at some point she transitions
into this role as procurer for him. At
what point does does Epstein actually
become a serial sexual predator?
>> I think it started and we know that some
of his first victims were from like
1996,
1998. some of his first victims were
were back then. And um Maxwell, there
were people that came forward that that
told me and others that Maxwell realized
that she was never going to be able to
marry him. And and there was a lot of
rumors at the time that maybe they would
get married, but she realized that as
she got older that this was not going to
satisfy him because he wanted younger
and younger girls. So she was dependent
on him somewhat for finances at that
point. Uh so she began this quest to
find him girls essentially. That's how
it all started.
>> So there's clear overlap. Epstein is the
playboy financier hanging out with
intellectuals and politicians in Florida
on private jets on his private island
and he's bringing all of these girls
through his house through his life and
taking advantage of them. And this
presumably both of these things continue
happening at the same time up to the
point that we already talked about the
point at which he is actually charged
and convicted in a very limited way in
2008. What happens to the social world,
all his high-flying connections after he
gets out of that club med style stint in
prison? Well, once he gets out of jail,
he hired all these PR people to remake
his image. And there are press release.
If you look um you know in archives,
there are uh the Jeffrey Epstein
Foundation put out press release after
press release after press release about
first it started with he was giving
money here, he was giving money there.
uh as time went on, being able to once
again resume the life that he had built
before this happened. And he was able to
do this in part because of the plea
deal. Because the plea deal, because it
was only solicitation of one underage
girl, he was able to say to people,
"Yeah, I did this. It was bad, but it
was only that." And to them, that was
sort of okay. He he served his time. And
you know, they they accepted that
explanation that it was just one girl
and he made a mistake. And of course, he
said he didn't know she was underage.
So, it was plausible to a lot of people
that he was not this monster uh that he
later uh we later know he was,
>> right? But that was also plausible to
people because they knew that he liked
to hang out with teenage girls, right?
And there's, you know, there's this
famous this now famous
>> line that Donald Trump himself has that
appeared, I believe, in a piece in New
York magazine,
uh, before long before Epstein's first
conviction, right, anything like that.
Um, where he's talking about Epstein's
social life and he says something like,
"He likes women as much as I do, but he
likes them on the younger side."
>> Right? So that it seems like that was
that was always part of his reputation.
>> Right. Right. He would have, you know, I
had some of the victims tell me that
they would be invited to parties with a
lot of wealthy people and well-known
people and they would just
>> sort of be told to stand there like
statues and to just look pretty and say
as little as possible and just, you
know, just kind of fawn over him. you
know, he would put some of them on his
lap, you know, so he he Yes. people
could see it. Yeah.
[Music]
Okay. So, and this is as you're
reporting it, one one thing to say,
right? because this is now a story
that's supposed to have been taken up
into the vortex of,
you know, Trump and MAGA and everything
else. But this was a meto story,
>> right?
>> Just Epstein's behavior alone looks like
a version of the Harvey Weinstein story
where you have this rich and powerful
man who has all this misbehavior and
people sort of tolerate it over a long
period of time. He gets away with some
some stuff legally because he has all
these connections and then finally
because of your reporting because of a
changing climate, it comes it comes
crashing down,
>> right? Cuz the Me Too movement happened
like right before the story came out the
the you know the Weinstein thing
happened and all that. I started working
on the project before then before the Me
Too movement but in the middle of it the
Me Too movement exploded. So, it
certainly uh helped my my the fact that
that that occurred all around the same
time.
>> I'm also interested in that because I'm
interested in basically the space
between
what we can say for certain about
Epstein and the unresolved mysteries.
>> Right? So if you're trying to take a
kind of minimalist view of the story,
it's a story about a rich man with
connections who gets away with terrible
crimes because he has these connections
for a long period of time. And it's a
story, you know, that makes all the
people who knew him look bad for the
same reason that everyone who knew about
Harvey Weinstein looks bad. Um but it's
not a story at the level of sort of
political mythology that Epstein the
story has reached reached now. So I want
I want now to talk about basically the
open questions whose openness explains
why
Epstein is a bigger story and a more
enduring story than than Harvey
Weinstein. Right?
Obviously, one of the core questions in
all of this is
were these girls expected to have sex
with people other than Jeffrey Epstein,
>> right?
>> And and a lot I think a lot of people
following the story just sort of take
for granted that there must have been a
bunch of other celebrities who were
getting sexual favors. And that the
debunking response as I understand it is
that out of the young women who made
accusations only one who you mentioned
earlier, Virginia
made serial allegations that she was
pressured into having sex with famous
figures. And out of the allegations uh
there was only one settlement. There was
no trial or anything but there was of
course the settlement with Prince Andrew
where there was a photograph of him
together with Maxwell and Juay. In the
other cases the men mentioned
successfully fought back. Juay is is
dead now. She um she was very troubled
clearly and there are reasons to think
that she might have been sort of out to
out to get money or get revenge and
these kind of things and reasons to be
skeptical of some of her allegations.
That is how I understand the case that
it was just Epstein. Do you think it was
just Do you think it was just Epste? It
wasn't because I over the years
>> a lot of women have come forward and I
spoke I speak with the attorneys that
represent these women quite often. Um
and I was speaking with one yesterday
who said that he had a client. She was
of age. She was on the younger side and
she was trafficked to a very powerful
man uh by Epstein in Palm Beach. Uh, and
I I believe there were others like that
that that were trafficked uh to very
powerful men. These women are scared to
death. They're not going to come forward
at this point because look what happened
to Virginia. They're that it's just
they're just not going to. They're
afraid. And so I I do believe
>> what did what what did happen to
Virginia?
Well, Virginia, you know, she went
public and she named names and as a
result of that, um Alan Dersitz among uh
was really the most vocal and and he
attacked her just brutally uh at every
juncture said every time he was in front
of a microphone, he said horrible things
about her. It was very very very nasty.
And they ended up
>> in fair in fairness I mean in fairness
to Alan Dersowitz. She had accused him
of sex crimes.
>> Right. Well, you didn't let me finish. I
was because I certainly uh agree that
that's enough to drive anybody crazy,
especially if you're wrongly accused.
And he certainly felt that she had
misidentified him. At the same time,
Virginia wasn't the only one that
accused Ders of this. There was one
other victim that also accused him. So
I agree um that it you know especially
how the whole thing ended there's
certainly some question about whether uh
her allegations uh were were you know
whether she was mistaken or not. Let's
put it that way. But I do think that,
you know, the reason why she ended up
suffering so much trauma is every time
something like this happens to a victim
who's been sexually abused, and she was
as a child, uh you're ret-raumatized.
And so she had a lot of um trauma in her
life and and I'm sure that that led to
her problems, her mental health problems
that ultimately, you know, led to her
suicide.
>> Right. But so from your perspective then
though it it is likely that there is
some set of men.
>> Yes.
>> In the world of men who move through
Epstein's mansion, Epstein's island and
so on who are guilty of essentially
having girls traffic to them and part
you know having sex with minors and so
on whose names whose names have have not
who have not been successfully accused
in a court of law.
>> That's correct.
>> Okay.
So the next question, what do you think
about the evidence and speculation that
Epstein intended to blackmail people?
Because that again is sort of the next
the next phase of the of the sort of
theorizing is that Epstein wasn't just
trying to sort of woo and you know
befriend these men, but he also liked
the idea of having dirt on the people
who had done bad things around him.
>> I I think he did, but I don't think he
blackmailed people directly like that. I
mean, if you just really think about it,
if you send a girl over to have sex with
one of these men, I it's not like you
write it down or that you, you know, I
don't believe he had a list. I just
think that he he used these uh women,
girls and women as pawns in order to
ingratiate himself with people that he
wanted to do business with. It was a
business transaction to him. That's what
this was. I don't think that he had this
operation where he was essentially
saying, "If you don't do this for me,
I'm going to reveal that you had sex
with so and so." I don't think it was
like that in in that traditional sense.
But if you're a man and you know that
you've been doing this,
>> you know, and he knows that you know,
right?
>> Exactly. And I think it was more like
that. I don't think it was a official or
a outright blackmail scheme like that. I
think it was more like he knows this
about me. Maybe I better, you know, do
this.
>> So then that that leads into the next
sort of open question, right? Which is
Epstein's alleged ties to intelligence
agencies, meaning I think in practice
either American intelligence agencies or
the MSAD in Israel. And here we were
talking earlier about um Epstein's
lenient plea deal and why Alex Aosta
ended up giving him the plea deal. There
is a now famous secondhand quote from
Aosta where um he is reported by someone
else in the first Trump administration
to have said, "Oh, he was told to back
off Epstein because Epstein belonged to
intelligence." Aosta has never publicly
corroborated that that quote and there
have been other other instances where he
said he didn't know anything about
Epstein's intelligence connections. But
first, do you think that some form of
the intelligence world and Epstein's
connections to it entered in at all to
why he got off light the first time or
anything like that? I don't know and I
don't think we anybody really knows
except the people that in the government
that have these files and I think that's
in part one of the unanswered questions
uh about Epstein because I I just don't
know. I know there's a lot of
supposition about that but as you said,
you know, I try to stick to the facts
and so it's just something we don't know
for sure.
>> Yeah. I mean, but I think I I'm drawing
on your your view, your skepticism about
the blackmail narrative,
>> right? There's sort of two two
intelligence stories you could tell. In
one, Epstein is literally an agent of an
intelligence agency trying to gather
dirt on famous people to get them to do
what the US government wants or what the
Israeli government wants. That's sort of
the most extreme. In the second one,
which I find somewhat more plausible,
Epstein is operating in a world where,
you know, Les Wexner, his his patron, is
a Zionist and a supporter of Israel.
Robert Maxwell, as we mentioned earlier,
had connections to Israeli intelligence.
So, you know, this is a world of people
who overlap with Israeli intelligence.
and maybe Epstein is useful as sort of a
conduit of information, these kind of
things, right? But it's not that he's
being run as a kind of enttrapment ring.
Um, that's sort of where where I am. If
if we don't think that Epstein was
running actual blackmail operations,
then the idea that he is sort of doing
some kind of full-scale intelligence
operation is seems much less likely.
>> Well, let me put it to you this way.
You're talking about what's plausible
and what's not plausible. It's the job
of our government to find out what's
plausible or what's real and what's not
real. And the question here, if we're
talking about things that we don't know
and things that maybe we should look
into, the question is is here. There
certainly was enough there uh that the
federal government, the DOJ some point
should have launched a counter
inelligence investigation into what was
true and on that end or not. We've known
long enough of this uh Costa statement
that he made. We've we you know they've
heard everything that we've heard that
we've just talked about. So we don't
know the answer to those questions, but
it's the job of our federal government
to look into those kinds of things and
at some point one would hope that they
did look into some of that. We just
don't know whether they did or not.
>> Good. So that brings me to either my
last or next to last unanswered
question, right? which is what do you
think if anything the government has
in its possession, the Department of
Justice or anyone else that could shed
further light on this case?
>> Well, they absolutely have files that
they can release. Uh they could release
his autopsy report, for example. Uh they
could release uh his plane records, for
example, the FAA records of where he
flew. They could redact the names of
victims, but they could release
information gathered by the US Marshall
Service, which was supposed to monitor
him. He was a convicted sex offender,
but yet he was allowed to fly his plane
all over the world, come back into the
United States with girls or young women
aboard his plane uh on a regular basis.
So, this is to me more of a story not
necessarily about Epstein, but about our
government and what our government did
or didn't do. This was a man that was
allowed to abuse girls and women for two
decades. How did that happen and why did
it happen to me is the question. Epstein
is sort of the the character in this.
But really these questions I think the
public and especially the victims did
deserve to know whether our government
did the job that they were supposed to
do.
When people talk about the Epstein
files, right, this kind of term of art
that gets that gets thrown around. Some
of what you're suggesting sounds more
like you think the government needs to,
>> you know, look at material that it
already has, but effectively create a
new set of Epstein, say we're going to
we're going to we're going to go digging
and find new information.
>> We know maybe they did do that. We don't
know what they did and didn't do. It's
possible they did do a counter
inelligence operation. It's possible
they did look into some of these leads
that they uh received about what he was
doing. These are just some of the
questions. It it's not when they say
release the Epstein files, you are
correct. They might not be able to
release these all these files and it
might not be appropriate for them to do
so. But to completely shut down the case
the way that they are saying that's it,
nothing to see here. I think uh it it
does the public a disservice because
they people want answers about how this
man was able to operate like this for so
long.
>> And when you say things could be
released that wouldn't be appropriate,
that means that there's a set of
information and material that involves
both victims and maybe alleged
perpetrators,
but also just people who are connected
to Epstein. Right. And there's some of
that that presumably can't be released
without betraying the victims
themselves, right? And some of that you
wouldn't want to release because you'd
be effectively releasing hearsay and
rumor about public figures who haven't
actually been charged with a crime,
right? Those seem like both impediments
to some kinds of release that people
want.
>> That's correct. But there's still a
whole set of information that they could
uh release. For example, the FBI has a
lot of files that are there online in
their vault, what they call the vault.
And for the most part, when you click on
those files, they're either filled with
wallto-wall gobbly [__] codes or they
are reports from the FBI from their
investigation way back in 2005
where they they're kind of giving status
reports on the investigation. Those
reports are heavily redacted. Even
Epstein's own name is redacted in some
of these reports. That investigation
from back then, what they did and what
they knew and when they knew it,
certainly those some of those files
could be looked at again and unredacted
so that people can see exactly what
happened back then and what the FBI did
and didn't do. I I just think that
there's this isn't a
>> Are there similar files from the 2018ish
investigation that that could be that
could be released?
>> Certainly. they would have had to have
some files, but you know, remember Gilen
Maxwell is appealing her conviction
right now. So, the reason that of course
they give for not releasing those case
files concerning Maxwell is because that
case is theoretically still open. If if
there were a group of powerful men who
abused women together with Epstein who
have gotten away with it, why wouldn't
Maxwell have given up some of those men
for the sake of some kind of plea
bargain?
>> I think for the same reason that
probably Trump doesn't want to release
the files. I think that it's just a
place where nobody wants to go. These
are very powerful men, important men,
and and possibly even quite frankly GOP
or Democratic donors. Uh,
>> but why does Maxwell I we're going to
end with Trump, but why does Max Why
would Maxwell care about giving up a
powerful Democratic or Republican donor
if it would buy her time off prison?
>> You'll have to ask her. She certainly
she has
>> We're working We're working on getting
her on the podcast, I promise.
>> Good luck. Uh she she uh to be honest
with you, I think once they got her
conviction, that was it. They were from
what I understand from the lawyers
representing the victims, they were more
concerned about getting Epstein and
Maxwell. They never really went there
there to go after the other people. And
so if you don't want to go there and you
don't want to do that, there would be
nobody.
>> So if if her lawyers had offered, they
would have just said, "No thanks. we're
not interested in.
>> I mean, I don't know.
>> Giving evidence against someone else,
right? I don't know for sure.
>> Okay. And now Trump himself.
>> Um, what what do you think? Now, we're
going to enter the realm of speculation,
but Trump, it's not just that the Trump
administration has sort of shut down the
investigation or shut, you know, said,
"Well, we've disclosed everything we can
disclose." It's that Trump has come out
swinging, saying, you know, this is a
hoax. This is, you know, he's he's
essentially treating a story that had
been taken up by a big part of his own
base as a story that he wants to not
just sort of ignore, but like publicly
discredit first. What is your
understanding of Trump's connections to
Epstein?
>> Yeah. And I'd like to stick with what I
know because
>> Well, we know. Yeah. Stick with what you
know there. He he was friends with
Epstein in the 1990s and they were in
the same social circles together and you
know we we see the video of him at a
party at Mara Lago. My understanding is
the falling out was uh two things that
led to the falling out. one that he uh
Epstein hit on a a member's daughter at
Mara Lago and he was banned from Epste
was banned from Mara Lago and the other
>> once again Donald Trump is standing up
for sexual ethics in America. That's
good. and that the other involved a real
estate transaction of course money where
they were bidding on the same property
very um big property and Epstein lost
and and Trump won the deal and so they
had a falling out over that property. So
those were the two things that uh but up
until then Trump had been flying on
Epstein's plane. Um he entertained some
of Epstein's family at one of his
casinos. So they were somewhat friendly,
>> but there's no reason in the public
record in what we know to think, oh, you
know, out of all of Epstein's friends
and acquaintances, Trump would be
someone who you would expect to have
actually been deeply inshed with Epstein
in some way.
>> There was no evidence right now that
Trump
uh was involved in in Jeffrey Epstein's
businesses or his sex trafficking or his
crimes.
>> Right.
>> Right. So then, and again, I don't want
to make you speculate too much, but then
to you watching
Trump essentially say, "It's time to
bury this story. It's time to get my own
supporters to move on from it," and so
on, that looks like to you just a desire
similar to the desire of prosecutors not
to have to deal with potential fallout
from other names coming coming out. What
What's is that your reading?
>> I don't know. It doesn't make any sense
to me to be honest with you. I I really
honestly don't know. It doesn't make any
sense that you would promote doing this
and saying you're going to do it over
and over again and have the people that
you appoint go forward with going public
on, you know, on TV in a very public
way, promising to do something and then
to to switch gears like that. I I really
honestly don't know why he would do
something like that. He gave an
interview during the campaign uh I think
during the campaign right where he said
something like he was asked about the
files and in part of the answer he said
well we're going to release you know we
should release something but then he
said uh you know but you don't want to
release things that aren't true
>> right
>> and and my perception was always that
other people in his coalition were much
more enthusiastic about this story that
it was never this was never one of
Trump's obsessions this was something
his supporters were obsessed with so It
didn't surprise me that
in the end they didn't want to do some
version of even what you're describing
and say uh you know we're going to go
back and find a bunch of other records
to to release. That doesn't surprise me.
I am surprised though by the the
vehements of Trump's reaction to the
negative reaction. That that is
something of a mystery. Um
okay, I've been trying to cover the
unanswered questions. Do you have any
other specific questions that you would
like answered?
>> I I wish I understood why our government
isn't treating this like the crime that
it is. It's it's a serious crime that
happened here. I don't think there's any
dispute. I mean, let's, you know, this
is this is something that actually
happened. This isn't a hoax. This
happened to these women uh when they
were very young. And I just it it is
surprising to some degree that they're
treating this as such a a political
issue and not treating it like it should
be treated, which is as a crime. And if
the files are unsatisfactory, don't
contain credible evidence, then maybe
they need to look a little deeper. Maybe
the answer is, uh, we still have
questions and we're going to look into
this more. But that's not the answer
they gave. The answer they gave was
there's nothing here. There's nothing
more to investigate. We're done with
this story. And I think the answer
should be obviously the public has a lot
of an uh questions and the victims still
want justice. So, we're going to look at
this a little further.
>> But in the end, for that to be worth
doing, Epstein himself is dead. So the
assumption, your assumption in making
this argument, and I I think it's a very
compelling argument, but the core of the
argument is there are other people out
there who are guilty,
>> that's correct,
>> of of Epstein's crimes who should face
justice and haven't.
>> Yeah. Let me be clear. Epstein did not
do this all by himself. He barely tied
his shoes by himself. He had butlers and
assistants doing everything for him,
including his compiling of his contact
list, his musical playlists. He had
people doing that for him, his
computers. He had lots of people helping
him. So, he did not do this alone. There
were other people helping him. And there
were other men who he sent some of these
women to.
>> Julie K. Brown, thank you so much. It's
been a pleasure.
>> Thank you.
[Music]
That's our show for the week. If you
enjoyed it, please follow this show
wherever you get your podcasts.
Interesting times is produced by
Katherine Sullivan, Sophia Alvarez Boyd,
Andrea Batanzos, and Raina Rascin. It's
edited by Jordana Hokman. Our fact check
team is Kate Sinclair, Mary Marge
Locker, and Michelle Harris. Original
music by Isaac Jones, Amon Sota, and Pat
McCusker. Mixing by Sophia Lanman and
Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by
Shannon Busta and Christina Samueli. And
our director of opinion audio is Annie
Rose Straer.
[Music]